
---

## Discussion

We found evidence that a higher exposure to scarlet fever across the first 10 years of childhood was associated with a higher incidence of ischaemic heart disease later in life, and weak evidence of higher incidence of stroke and AMI. Our results are consistent with previous studies which have reported associations of S. pyogenes diseases on other heart disease outcomes such as RHD^[@Sika-Paotonu2016]^ and mitral stenosis^[@Ahmad2016]^. We found little evidence of relationships with educational attainment, which is consistent with a prior study on the effects of scarlet fever exposure on test results of 11-year olds^[@McKeown1976]^. 

However, one of the few studies that has undertaken research into the associations of scarlet fever with cardiovascular health outcomes found a hazard ratio of 4.52 for males exposed in infancy to scarlet fever^[@Quaranta2013]^. This study focused on those born between 1813-1898 in Sweden, so it is possible that the changing environment and disease dynamics may explain this null result. We were not able to replicate our positive control of RHD, however only 842 of the 241 685 participants had RHD. Given deaths from RHD during our study period where around 15 deaths per 100 000 for males and 22 deaths per 100,000 for females, declining significantly from 1941 to 1972^[@Office1931]^, our confidence intervals of RHD indicate that we are unlikely to find an effect.

We found evidence that participants who experienced higher regional rates of scarlet fever in the first year of life had lower middle age fluid intelligence, but this association was found only for the first year of life. PANDAS, a potential mechanism for the effect, is found most commonly between children aged 3-12 following a similar distribution of scarlet fever^[@Schieveld2019]^. However, as only 41% of our sample have information on fluid intelligence our standard errors are too large to ascertain an association. Whilst early life exposures to various disease at age one have previously been linked to reductions in fluid intelligence^[@Case2009]^, a mechanism for this reduction was not presented. 

We find results with an effect size that exceeds one for many of our outcomes, with means that we are not detecting the direct effect of scarlet fever cases on our various phenotypes. Using the data from 2007, it was estimated that that their where 1.2 million consultations for pharyngitis^[@Thornley2016]^ but this includes viral pharyngitis. Given rough estimates of 20%-40% of pharyngitis cases being from S. pyogenes^[@Wessels2016]^, this would lead around 240 000 - 480 000 cases of strep pharyngitis in 2007, compared to the 1948 cases of scarlet fever^[@PublicHealthEngland2019]^. If scarlet fever rates are proxying for the underlying rate of S. pyogenes then this ratio of differences would explain the larger than 1 magnitudes of the results, but this study is not able to prove this. 

A limitation of this study is that we derived the regional measures of disease incidence rates using notifications in the district of birth, and thus assume that individuals do not move out of their district. We do not observe relocations across childhood and therefore cannot take residential mobility into account. One of the few estimates of residential mobility for this period estimated it between 7-10% for individuals aged 0-19 between 1938-1947^[@Falkingham2016]^, but these years involve the period the Second World War and are at the beginning of our sample. However, since many of these individuals are likely to have moved within a region, this may have resulted in at least some measurement error bias. Measurement error may have attenuated our estimates, leading to an underestimate of the exposure of infection. 

Furthermore, UK Biobank participants tend to be healthier, leaner, smoke less, suffer from less disease, be older, and live in more socioeconomically advantaged areas^[@Biobank2017]^. Given association to diseases and social economic position^[@Swedlund2009]^, these individuals where less likely to be exposed leading to selection bias. In our case, at a population level their may be an association between scarlet fever and non-rheumatic vascular disease. However, selection into the sample adjusts our exposure, as individuals in the UK Biobank tend to be more socioeconomically advantaged, and also our outcome as they tend be healthier^[@Biobank2017]^ which may attenuate our ability to causally investigate all of these outcomes with our sample population.
 
A strength of this study is that we use regional, rather than individual, data on scarlet fever exposure. Although individual-level infection rates are more specific and allow one to estimate the association between individual-level infections and later life health, they suffer more from confounding, in particular due to socioeconomic position as scarlet fever is more common among socioeconomically disadvantaged groups^[@Swedlund2009]^. In contrast, regional-level exposure rates provide a summary measure of the environment that one has been exposed to at a particular age. We included region effects to account for time invariant differences between regions (e.g. socioeconomic demographics). Hence, we compare participants who experienced high rates of scarlet fever to similar individuals born in the same local area but were exposed to lower rates, whilst controlling for general cohort year of birth effects. 

This is one of the first studies to investigate S. pyogenes in this context, and the first to do so using the linked Registrar-General’s Weekly Return to the UK Biobank. Unlike previous annual data from Public Health England ^[@PublicHealthEngland2019]^, weekly analysis allows for controls of seasonality and have necessary identifying variation to use in cohort studies. Our associated findings are broadly similar to those found in prior studies, and further stress the importance of the consequences of early life exposure to later life health and wellbeing. 

## Conclusion

Participants exposed to higher regional incidence rates of scarlet fever during childhood had higher ischemic heart disease, with other heart disease outcomes of AMI and stroke also showing increased risk. We also found some evidence to suggest that S. pyogenes impacts on cognitive wellbeing and support for prior studies` findings that its association with educational attainment is limited. These findings suggest that there are additional benefits to controlling scarlet fever and more generally S. pyogenes.
